README.md, before:


# Atomic Aave Lending Position Swap (Trustless and Cross-Chain)

## Introduction
Welcome to the Atomic Aave Lending Position Swap (AALPS) project! 

This project demonstrates a completely trustless, decentralized, cryptographically secure protocol for cross-chain atomic swaps of Aave lending positions (aTokens). It enables holders of lending positions (aTokens) in Aave to securely exchange aTokens for other aTokens, or any ERC20 token between any chain that supports AaveV3. 

For example, someone can use an AALPS to trustlessly swap their aTokens on Avalanche for USDC on Polygon - or aTokens on Ethereum for aTokens on Avalanche. 

We refer to the mechanism as the Atomic Aave Lending Position Swap (AALPS). The outcome is full interoperability between any EVM chains for trading Aave liquidity positions. ✨👻

### Example Usage

- Jimmy has an AaveV3 lending position of 50 DAI on Ethereum, and so holds 50 aDAI. 
- Sandra has an AaveV3 lending position of 0.001 WBTC on Arbitrum, and so holds aWBTC. 

Both Jimmy and Sandra agree that they would like to exchange positions with each other, and use AALPS to trustlessly and securely exchange their aTokens. Even though their positions are cross-chain and using different assets, Jimmy and Sandra are able to exchange their positions trustlessly and securely.

## How does it work?
AALPS leverages a Secure Exchange Protocol (SEP) that relies on one-way hashing of a cryptographic secret and time-constraints on specific actions. Here are the steps for completing an AALPS. It ensures that all parties funds' remain safe throughout the lifecycle of the transaction.

1. Agreement Creation:

- Party A initiates the process by locking funds on their blockchain. This lock includes a cryptographic challenge, whose solution is a secret code, that only they know the solution to initially. If Party B learns this secret within the deadline, they may unlock these funds. 
- The agreement also specifies a deadline by which the transaction must be completed.

2. Agreement Commitment by Party B:

- Party B, upon reviewing the locked assets, engages in the agreement by creating a similar agreement on their blockchain, referencing the cryptographic challenge set by Party A.
- Party B's agreement also includes a deadline, which is set earlier than Party A's deadline, to ensure that Party A has enough time to respond.

3. Asset Locked:

- Both parties' assets are now effectively locked and cannot be accessed by anyone else.
- The assets will only be released when the cryptographic challenge is correctly solved.

4. Challenge Solution and Asset Exchange:

- Party A now reveals the solution to the cryptographic challenge (the secret code) on Party B's blockchain to claim Party B's locked assets.
- By revealing the solution on the blockchain, Party A automatically makes it public, allowing Party B to use the same solution on Party A's blockchain.

5. Completion of the Swap:

- Party B uses the now-revealed solution to claim the assets locked by Party A on Party A’s blockchain.
- This ensures that both parties receive the assets they were swapping, completing the exchange.

6. Failure to Complete:

- If Party A fails to reveal the solution before Party B's deadline, Party B can reclaim their locked assets, as the agreement becomes void.
- Similarly, if Party B does not claim Party A's assets after the solution is revealed and before Party A's deadline, Party A can reclaim their locked assets.

### Flow of an AALPS between two parties

![image](https://github.com/Oskii/aave-cross-chain-lending-position-swaps/assets/30426408/cd835243-1552-4873-8a1e-aa950cb94d2a)

## Features Demonstrated

- Cross-chain atomic swap functionality between Ethereum Sepolia testnet and Polygon Mumbai testnet.
- Secure and trustless cryptographic method, which we call **the Atomic Aave Lending Swap method**.

## Prerequisites
Before you get started, ensure you have the following installed:

- Node.js (version 16.20.0 or higher)
- NPM (Node Package Manager)
- Hardhat (version 2.19.1)
- I used WSL2 as my terminal

Installation
To set up the Atomic Aave Lending Swap project on your local machine, follow these steps:

1. Ensure you have the prerequisites above

```bash
npm install
```

Commit message:

explain how to simulate the lifecycle locally

README.md, after:

# Atomic Aave Lending Position Swap (Trustless and Cross-Chain)

## Introduction

Welcome to the Atomic Aave Lending Position Swap (AALPS) project!

This project demonstrates a completely trustless, decentralized, cryptographically secure protocol for cross-chain atomic swaps of Aave lending positions (aTokens). It enables holders of lending positions (aTokens) in Aave to securely exchange aTokens for other aTokens, or any ERC20 token between any chain that supports AaveV3.

For example, someone can use an AALPS to trustlessly swap their aTokens on Avalanche for USDC on Polygon - or aTokens on Ethereum for aTokens on Avalanche.

We refer to the mechanism as the Atomic Aave Lending Position Swap (AALPS). The outcome is full interoperability between any EVM chains for trading Aave liquidity positions. ✨👻

### Example Usage

- Jimmy has an AaveV3 lending position of 50 DAI on Ethereum, and so holds 50 aDAI.
- Sandra has an AaveV3 lending position of 0.001 WBTC on Arbitrum, and so holds aWBTC.

Both Jimmy and Sandra agree that they would like to exchange positions with each other, and use AALPS to trustlessly and securely exchange their aTokens. Even though their positions are cross-chain and using different assets, Jimmy and Sandra are able to exchange their positions trustlessly and securely.

## How does it work?

AALPS leverages a Secure Exchange Protocol (SEP) that relies on one-way hashing of a cryptographic secret and time-constraints on specific actions. Here are the steps for completing an AALPS. It ensures that all parties funds' remain safe throughout the lifecycle of the transaction.

1. Agreement Creation:

- Party A initiates the process by locking funds on their blockchain. This lock includes a cryptographic challenge, whose solution is a secret code, that only they know the solution to initially. If Party B learns this secret within the deadline, they may unlock these funds.
- The agreement also specifies a deadline by which the transaction must be completed.

2. Agreement Commitment by Party B:

- Party B, upon reviewing the locked assets, engages in the agreement by creating a similar agreement on their blockchain, referencing the cryptographic challenge set by Party A.
- Party B's agreement also includes a deadline, which is set earlier than Party A's deadline, to ensure that Party A has enough time to respond.

3. Asset Locked:

- Both parties' assets are now effectively locked and cannot be accessed by anyone else.
- The assets will only be released when the cryptographic challenge is correctly solved.

4. Challenge Solution and Asset Exchange:

- Party A now reveals the solution to the cryptographic challenge (the secret code) on Party B's blockchain to claim Party B's locked assets.
- By revealing the solution on the blockchain, Party A automatically makes it public, allowing Party B to use the same solution on Party A's blockchain.

5. Completion of the Swap:

- Party B uses the now-revealed solution to claim the assets locked by Party A on Party A’s blockchain.
- This ensures that both parties receive the assets they were swapping, completing the exchange.

6. Failure to Complete:

- If Party A fails to reveal the solution before Party B's deadline, Party B can reclaim their locked assets, as the agreement becomes void.
- Similarly, if Party B does not claim Party A's assets after the solution is revealed and before Party A's deadline, Party A can reclaim their locked assets.

### Flow of an AALPS between two parties

![image](https://github.com/Oskii/aave-cross-chain-lending-position-swaps/assets/30426408/cd835243-1552-4873-8a1e-aa950cb94d2a)

## Features Demonstrated

- Cross-chain atomic swap functionality between Ethereum Sepolia testnet and Polygon Mumbai testnet.
- Secure and trustless cryptographic method, which we call **the Atomic Aave Lending Swap method**.

## Prerequisites

Before you get started, ensure you have the following installed:

- Node.js (version 16.20.0 or higher)
- NPM (Node Package Manager)
- Hardhat (version 2.19.1)
- I used WSL2 as my terminal

## Installation
To set up the Atomic Aave Lending Swap project on your local machine, follow these steps:

1. Ensure you have the prerequisites above

```bash
npm install
```
## Simulate an AALPS locally via hardhat with Mock aTokens
AALPS works in the exact same way on 1 chain or in a multi-chain setting. It does not need to know which chains it is operating on. In this local simulation, two parties swap mock aDai and aWBTC using AALPS. 

To simulate the swap locally:

Open a second terminal and spin up a hardhat node
```bash
npx hardhat node
```

Then in the first terminal type
```bash
npx hardhat run scripts/simulate.ts
```
